# I am not disabled: Difference, ethics, critique and refusal of neoliberal academic selves

by Francesca Peruzzo

**In _§Modernism, postmodernism and the troubled divide_, Peruzzo introduces the social model of disability, its binary between "impairment (biological) and disability (social)" (35), and four objections to the model (see pages 35 and 36). How do you define the social model of disability? How would you refute either of the four objections? Is there a further objection you find more convincing?**

**Three things go on in the section _§The limits of the academic body: A history of the present of academia_. Firstly, Peruzzo makes an ontological claim, a claim about the nature of academia: “the new neoliberal academic body, cheerful, show yourself happy to be here, healthy – sickness slows you down – productive – how many papers this year? Oh look, your citation index has gone up! – attractive – make funds come to you, agile – flexi-hours, malleable – flexi-morals (41). This is the point of departure from which she begins her analysis. Secondly, Peruzzo defines her methodology: “critique”, which is about figuring out “the idea we have of our knowledge and its limits” (42). Thirdly, and through this critique, she identifies the problem: that she operates at the limits of academia by being an “able-bodied” scholar studying disability. My question concerns this quote: she sees her work as “a way of freeing bodies by the only way they could operate: by being able” (42). Is this a necessary task for this type of academic? Or is this too burdensome? Might it raise other moral issues?**
